##Lectora Explanation

A lot of the e-Learning sites built at Talent2 used the WYSIWYG “Lectora”. Lectora was simple enough for non-dev’s to learn how to use, and was used mainly to build simple e-learning sites rapidly and cheaply. It did the job well enough, but it didn’t have the capabilities to allow you to build complex designs and features. To build more complex sites, the development team needed to override Lectora’s functionality and also create custom features, often using javascript.

The HTML, CSS and Javascript code that Lectora outputs is a horrible mess, as you can see in the screenshot provided. The development team wrote a javascript “engine” which would mostly override Lectora’s own javascript, allowing us to do our own tracking of elements and manipulation of the front-end. But it wasn’t always so simple. Lectora’s output would include really weird things, such as unexplainable timeout events delaying its own code being run, calculating and redrawing all the absolute positions of every element on the page “on-the-fly” on page load, and writing very specific CSS for every element while using “!important” tags everywhere. It was all very annoying to work with and understand.

I spent a lot of time updating and upgrading the javascript we built for Lectora. I would update the code with bug fixes and add features needed for future projects. As our code improved and got more feature-full, essentially improving Lectora itself, any projects needing to use Lectora got more complex, always pushing the boundaries of what we could do with the program. And thus, we would need to create new features and complexity to be able to build the new projects. It was a never ending circle.